you're a fine man Bushnell moments I
will not soon forget your kindness and
decency
what about the FBI I am really details
back subscribe and let's get started
just just go straight to it
welcome back everybody this is our recap
for part 16 Greg Ryan we're gonna do
things a little bit different this week
I want to focus a little bit on the
things that we like the most about this
episode and then we're gonna sort of
skip Easter eggs and go straight into
some theories and predictions going into
the two-part finale that's coming up now
don't forget to subscribe to GameSpot
universe we got plenty more TV coverage
out there we got Game of Thrones Rick
and Morty and of course Twin Peaks
okay so part 16 basically the set up for
the final two parts of the two-hour
finale or is it no stop nope nope we'll
get into your crazy prediction leader
not now what's let's just move on
starting off mr. Cooper who has no
reason to trust anyone brings a trap
meant for him using his own son thus
confirming that two of the three sets of
coordinates he got were bogus and that
Richard was his son with Audrey goodbye
my son
well it's good to finally put the
mystery of Richard's paternity to rest
yeah unfortunately we're not gonna get
the father-son road trip that I was
hoping for but here we are and Richard's
a scumbag anyway so good riddance later
buddy
also one cool little side note too you
can bring up the Old Testament tale
about God directing Abraham to take his
son to the top of the mountain and
sacrifice him on a stone altar well
there you go yeah I can see it alright
personally I think there was something
even more important that happened in
this scene people Jerry came back and
for one maybe two moments it looks like
he has sorted a situation out as he gets
out his binoculars to get a closer look
and then
yeah Jerry's still totally fried I doubt
he even knew it was his own grand nephew
that got electrocuted of course the
presence of Jerry confirms that mr.
Cooper has arrived in Twin Peaks or
nearby yeah to cap off the scene mr.
Cooper sends a cryptic text message to
Diane smileyface oh all right okay okay
sure all right yeah Diane as usual is at
the hotel bar where she receives mr.
Cooper's message she has this Manchurian
Candidate esque reaction as though she's
been activated she messages back
coordinates and heads upstairs
Gordon somehow knows she's outside the
FBI's door and tells her to come in
before she knocks Diane takes her usual
seat and proceeds to finally tell the
three agents about the night mr. Cooper
came to her many years ago her
description is harrowing and intense and
recalls the tone of Alice Harford's
dramatic confession and Stanley
Kubrick's Eyes Wide Shut
Diane describes what we've suspected all
along that she was raped by mr. C after
being disarmed by simply seeing coop
again afterward he took her to an old
gas station which we presume is the
convenience store gas station next Diane
glance is one more time at her phone
sees mr. Cooper's text message again and
starts to panic she tells him that she
gave Cooper the coordinates to the
sheriff's apartment in that I'm not
turns out she was a Tulpa she appears in
the Red Room where Mike tells her she
was manufactured and before she gets
disintegrated in typical Diane form says
I know
[ __ ] you what was so cool about that
scene is that Albert was ready to go he
was getting his gun before she even was
reaching in there she was having her
malfunction like two weeks two weeks
yeah I think I'm ready to relinquish the
Albert being bad theory and I mean I
kind of lost that one a little while ago
I gotta be honest this sequence has
actually been one of the hardest to
unpack in the whole series in terms of
what is actually going on in it yeah but
before we deal with that I just want to
sort of tack on that one I think my
favorite moment with Tammy Preston came
in that scene like after they unload on
Diane and I anticipated
she's a whoa and she has that sort of
elation it reminds me of Dan Aykroyd and
ghostbusters right after the library
sequence where he's like oh man we saw a
ghost guys this is amazing and that was
just it was right there I loved it let's
back up now there's been some chatter on
welcome to Twin Peaks and Twitter about
the coordinates Cooper told Richard he
had gotten too matched and won unmatched
set of coordinates from three separate
sources we don't know who gave the bad
coordinates though ray and Jeffries
topped the list but if Diane is just now
sending him the coordinates she
memorized from Ruth Davenport who gave
Cooper the third set and when did they
do it for the record
Diane's text does appear to match the
coordinates on Ruth's arm even though
they're heavily smudged the next thing
is that between the two scenes the
messages on her phone don't match their
received times are different they have
different punctuation and in the second
scene her response with the coordinates
isn't shown either her bracelets also
switch order on her arm speculation
going around is that these are two
back-to-back scenes with two different
Diane's if you want to say that there's
two Diane's there just could be just
multiple timelines just different worlds
we saw that a couple episodes back when
Andy saves no hado when we saw the one
saying what everyone's coming together
and there's different you know versions
of the same person I agree that there
is that there's not an accident and it
is not continuity error I do think that
the differences are intentional but I'm
not totally sure that a difference the
difference is carry meaning like I think
that what Frost and Lynch like to do is
create dream worlds and in dreams there
can be inconsistency without those
inconsistencies
barring any special meaning it could
just be that from space to space things
are slightly different that doesn't mean
that they are different spaces I don't
think we're gonna get an answer to this
anyways but I think it's just cool to
bring out and they might still be clues
for further deciphering once all of this
is done the final dossier personally at
this point I don't think the
discrepancies with every single text
message sent between Cooper and Diane
can be a coincidence however I think the
most likely explanation is simply that
Lynch and Frost are peddling dreams and
in dreams things don't always need to be
consistent the bigger question to me is
who manufactured Diane but we can get
into that a little bit later outside of
it Jones's home in Las Vegas before
Cooper comes back I got one more dose of
what I wanted Chantel and hutch these
two have been the frost Lynch channeling
Tarantino characters and boy do they go
out with an awesome Tarantino style bang
the whole scene is set up to be a
Mexican standoff between the Hutchins
the FBI and the mitchum brothers I
thought it was going to be a bloodbath
leaving the streets strewn with bullet
casings and blood instead an accountant
with a bad attitude intervenes and takes
care of the duo himself in a crazed
machine pistol frenzy
I loved this scene I loved everything
about it
it's how they should have gone out and I
didn't think he could get any better
until Bradley Mitchum opened his mouth
so [ __ ] me bro dude peeper under a lot
of stress Bradley I loved it
just another like Peckinpah mo me just
the gunshots and victim don't go thump
them everything is perfect they nailed
that I select that line from Mitchum the
people under a lot of stress sort of
like their their detached from the
working-class people but it's an
opportunity for frost and Lynch to fit
in one more little kind of like
commentary on the decaying middle class
afterwards we return to dougie in the
hospital room with Mullins standing
beside him and then we hear the strange
humming that we last heard in the Great
Northern Mullen steps out because he
can't figure out where the hell that
sounds coming from and then the moment
we've all been waiting for finally
happens 100% I do have to say that after
such a long period of time I had pretty
much just gotten on the Dougie train and
also the mr. Cooper train resigned to
never seeing Dale Cooper again but he
came back and it was so strong he's he's
up there's no where am I what's going on
he knows exactly what's going on yeah
get me some sandwiches get the car I'm
gonna put my clothes on we're getting
out of here
how'd he come back enough like part
three this case this would have been
only way for parts right
he would have flew right to Twin Peaks
and that would have been a quick note
Dale gets the al cave ring back from
Mike and Dale tells Mike to make another
what we assume is dougie Jones this
actually to me raised the question of
did Dale manufactured dougie in the
first place we were talking about this
being mr. see the whole time this was a
this was a plan by mr. C to keep himself
out of the black lodge or the Red Room
and from this though it almost seems
like it was actually Dale who had it
taking care of another woman it's just
right like he knew he was gonna be going
into dougie he probably didn't think he
would be a vegetable for so long and was
still gonna do all the same stuff
acquire the car acquire the Mitchum's
like do all the same things just not
with half a brain so they all finished
is suiting up he gets a snub nose from
Mullins then he gets on the phone with
the Mitchell brothers because he's going
back to Twin Peaks we flip over the
Mitchum's Rodney's on phone with coop
Bradley's finishing up booking the plane
and then the magic moment happens the
twin peaks core kicks in and we go back
to Dale and Bushnell he gives Bushnell a
message for Gordon Cole then the magic
continues
I have to be honest I got a little
welled up I think they brought Dale back
perfectly and this has come this is
coming from somebody who's been on the
dougie train for like eight eight
episodes I was just stunned everyone
around us we had a viewing party and
everyone started screaming and clapping
and I was just like this whole part of
the show is emotional Dale Janie ii and
sonny jim go to the Mitchum's casino
where they have to say their goodbyes
they all says i have to go away for a
while and the bottle meant he kicks in
again he tells them you've made my heart
so full and Dougie I mean I will be back
in that moment Janie II realizes she
hasn't been with her husband but Dale
tries to reassure them and your dad
sweetie it doesn't stop it's so good
[Music]
I think it's just maybe the right time
to say Naomi Watts like outstanding
outstanding great performance in this
series if this is the last time we see
Janie II it's been a great journey she
was incredible I don't know what the
hell's in store for them for Emmys or
anything like that I really hope that
Naomi wants gets a nomination this is
incredible what kind of world are we
living in where people can behave like
this treat other people this way without
any compassion or feeling for their
suffering we are living in a dark dark
age and you are part of the problem we
get Dale back in the limo with the
Mitchum's and the Andy's one last time I
hope they also are in the final two hell
I think they are I want to say that I
think there's gonna be one more scene
with all of them it seems like they're
on the trip together
and I love that scene we get Dale
getting his cup of coffee we get Bradley
getting his Bloody Mary and and Bradley
is just like a kid he gets his Bloody
Mary he just starts slurping it just
like sunny Jim was slurping a soda a few
scenes back and they're just off on
their adventure
please Mitchum Brothers spin-off be good
please give me this please finally eddie
vedder appears at the Roadhouse to
perform a long solo ballad it was a nice
way to round out the episode okay now I
know our predictions and theories about
how the return is going to end that's
not how it ended nope
I think about half the people though at
our viewing stood up started to head to
the kitchen head to the bathroom
anything to get away from Eddie better I
was one of them I got up to go get a
drink I saw Eddie Vedder I was like okay
the credits gonna roll any second let me
get a drink real quick it's no a full
two minutes go by before Audrey and
Charlie show up at the Roadhouse all I
hear is a Oh from someone and then I
immediately run back in the room I make
them rewind it oh yeah that was me I was
sitting there I did not move and I'm
just staring I was like I remember
the bosomy woman at the end of the last
episode I'm not gonna miss another
detail I'm sitting here until the song
is over we did so after Eddie Vedder is
finished the emcee introduces Audrey's
dance octrees
all right before that everyone's
thinking oh okay so she's not nekoma is
everything's fine this isn't a dream or
anything she's there in the Roadhouse
look and even then we're still taking a
sip of my drink looking around then the
MC sets that and then all of a sudden
the crowd car out and then starts
swaying as the classic Audrey Horne Twin
Peaks music kicks in it's pretty awesome
Audrey starts to dance and they sway and
that image is gonna stay with me to the
end of days because if you really tell
me what do you want to see in Twin Peaks
the return that was it bet it for me
[Music]
that honestly is the one of my favorite
moments of the return in general I don't
think anything can really top that but
uh two more episodes ago so I'm gonna
shut up and just who knows maybe they
can give us more than that it's one of
the most haunting moments it's one of
the most beautiful moments it's great
fanservice but it's also dramatic and
cool yeah and you think for a minute
that it's just gonna go on and that's
what's gonna waltz us out the door into
the closing credits but no a fight
breaks out two guys one guys sleeping
with the others wife a typical story of
people who go to the Roadhouse it breaks
Audrey's concentration on her dance she
runs over to Charlie and says and what
was that white lodge mental institution
waking up from some which she's still in
a coma I think somebody said alien
spaceship is another possibility she's
on an alien spaceship with major Briggs
well that would fit some of the frost
secret history type stuff yes let's not
delve too far into it okay because I
think okay there's not enough but let's
to go why let's move over into the
prediction since that's what we've got
time for here yes yeah I just want to
get my first very simple wingnut Theory
out of the way so everybody can groan
and then we can move on part 17 and 18
will be prequels to Twin Peaks the
return fire walk with me style therefore
the last moment in the series timeline
is Audrey waking up in the white place
it's ridiculous I know but we have to be
prepared for some things never being
resolved maybe not everything but some
things the return ends with Dale on his
way to do his job
Audrey waking up and then that
you gotta wait for the book or you gotta
wait another 25 years or something only
because of fire walk with me that I
would even think that's a possibility
yeah use something like yeah then we go
back and we get a little bit more on
Nadine story and Stephen and Becky and
you know maybe a little bit more Bobby
Briggs speaking of things that could be
addressed I have a little list of things
that somehow we may or may not get
wrapped up in the final two episodes so
we got Cooper returning the Twin Peaks
Diane's fate Audrey's fate Becky's fate
Shelly in red more candy and the
Mitchum's Lodge mysteries what's the
symbol on the card and the map
what's going on with Nadeau why Richard
and Linda are two birds in one stone
what's happening with Sarah Palmer is
Laura coming back into the story because
she is the one will they show us what
the mother is what's Bob's fate the
glass box the black box in Argentina and
this did with all that said the only
thing I really think they are gonna go
into it's just the fates of mr. C and
Cooper honestly that's the only safe bet
you can have going into this and I would
personally just like to know what the
hell was going on in that phone call in
part one RV Barbie yeah I don't think
you I don't think I don't think that's
coming i that it's not coming back man
oh you know that's gonna be in
processbook you have to kiss that one
goodbye I would love if they just have
one little thing on that just the tiny
thing just give me something give me
another name so you'd be careful what
you wish for man you might get a
10-minute long scene or more I'm fine
with that
okay so let's just say that my prequel
theory is wrong here are some of the
things I think that are a little bit
more likely I think that mr. Cooper and
Dale Cooper
are actually gonna have to join forces I
don't think that they're actually gonna
have a showdown one of them does have to
die they might have a have a fight at
one point but I think they're got the
joint forces against Judy or the mother
if in fact Judy Sarah Palmer mother are
the same I like I said I think that Dale
was manufacturing the Tulpas and the
part of mr. C's plan that he was talking
about originally was the glass box in
New York and that affected Dale's
ability to come back but it also did
something to the experiment which broke
out and killed people in New York now we
have to get to Twin Peaks I think you
know this is probably wrong but I do
think that what we were seeing was
Audrey waking up I think we're gonna get
Audrey and coop at the same time
descending on Twin Peaks and that's
going to culminate obviously at the
sheriff's station where we already have
NIDA
we already have Freddie Sykes with the
green glove so there's gonna be a
massive confrontation there and then I
don't know how is it it's gonna resolve
another prediction to jump off of it I
think we are going to figure out who
Judy is speaking of Judy we put it to
the audience last week who they think
Judy is and we got some very interesting
responses hit it I'm also thinking Judy
is code for Garland Briggs
I think NATO is judy judy has to be
Sarah Palmer it makes sense that way
Sarah is tied into the end game of this
season
Judy is Norma's code name for her cherry
pie recipe us mr. strawberry I like a
lot of those possibilities NATO seems
possible Sarah Palmer mr. strawberry
well maybe not mr. strawberry I like us
because that just fits in with who is
the dreamer
they're all good Monica Bellucci all
right guys thank you so much for
watching let us know in a comment
section what your predictions are for
the final two parts and as always you
can hit us up on Twitter with some of
your predictions we'll be there all week
all right guys we'll see you on the
other side see you on the other side
later